PS C:\Users\REDACTED> docker exec -it arcworks-resto-ollama-1 ollama run tinyllama:1.1b
>>> /set verbose
Set 'verbose' mode.
>>> /set parameter num_gpu 99
Set parameter 'num_gpu' to '99'
>>> /set parameter num_ctx 4096
Set parameter 'num_ctx' to '4096'
>>> /show info
  Model
    architecture        llama
    parameters          1B
    context length      2048
    embedding length    2048
    quantization        Q4_0

  Capabilities
    completion

  Parameters
    stop    "<|system|>"
    stop    "<|user|>"
    stop    "<|assistant|>"
    stop    "</s>"

  System
    You are a helpful AI assistant.

>>> /show parameters
Model defined parameters:
  stop                           "<|system|>"
  stop                           "<|user|>"
  stop                           "<|assistant|>"
  stop                           "</s>"

User defined parameters:
  num_gpu                        99
  num_ctx                        4096

>>> Write a long essay on why the sky is blue. Include scientific explanations, historical context, and practical exampl
... es. Make it detailed and well-structured.
The Mysterious Blue Sky: An Exploration of the Science Behind Why It's Blue

For millions of years, the sky has been a colorful and mysterious canvas, filled with secrets to be unraveled.
From the clouds that form in the morning and mingle with the sea air at noon, to the sunset that paints the sky in
vibrant hues and shapes, the sky is a natural wonderland of colors and patterns.

But why does the sky look blue? This is one of the most vexing questions of nature, and scientists are working
hard to shed some light on this enigma. Here's a look at how we came to understand the mysterious color of the
sky.

The Blue Sky: A Historical Perspective

The first sightings of the blue sky can be traced back to ancient Greece, where it was known as a “phantasma” - an
optical illusion caused by refraction and distortion. In 1675, the philosopher Baron Hermann von Helmholtz
observed that the sun's rays are bent as they strike the earth's atmosphere, creating a colorful halo around the
horizon.

In the 19th century, astronomers began to study this phenomenon in greater detail, finding that the blue light
from the sun is absorbed by the oxygen atoms in the Earth's upper atmosphere before being scattered and refracted
by water vapor. This scattering creates a pattern of colors seen in the sky, from deep blues and purples at night
to shades of green, gold, and brown in daylight.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Physics of the Sun's Light

Understanding the physics of blue skies is essential for understanding how they form. In fact, the sun's light
itself generates these colors - it's the Earth's atmosphere that refracts and bends this light.

When the sun rises in the morning sky, warm, high-altitude air is being blown out by the sun's heat. This heated
air rushes down through the troposphere (the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere) and into the stratosphere (the
upper layers beyond 10 km). As it flows upward, the air cools, creating a cooler, lower atmospheric pressure.

This cooler air rises, but its density is still relatively high compared to water vapor in the atmosphere. When
the air passes through a wavelength of blue light, the molecules bend and scatter this light. The shorter
wavelengths (blue light) are scattered more than the longer wavelengths, resulting in a pattern of colors that
appears blue at night.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Water Vapor

As well as the Earth's atmosphere, water vapor also plays an essential role in generating blue skies. This is
because as warm air rises, it cools and expands due to its increased pressure. This expansion creates a high
amount of humidity (water vapor mixed with air) as the air rises upwards.

When this humidified air reaches the upper levels of Earth's atmosphere, it causes clouds to form. Clouds are
formed by a dense layer of water droplets that rise and condense in response to increased pressure. The water
droplets create tiny drops that eventually fall back down to earth as rain or snow.

This process continues until the air reaches the stratosphere, where the humidity is much lower and clouds
dissipate. From there, cooler, higher altitude air rushes upwards again, producing new cloud formations.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Oxygen and Water Vapor

Oxygen (O2) is another important component in the formation of blue skies. As mentioned earlier, oxygen atoms are
scattered by blue light, producing a pattern of colors that appears blue. This scattering is caused by the
interference of blue light with water vapor in the atmosphere. The resulting pattern is what we see as the blue
sky.

Scientists have discovered that when oxygen atoms hit water vapor in the atmosphere, they are absorbed and then
bounced back. This creates a pattern of colors called a "blue moon," where each point on the sky has an alternate
pattern. The blue moon effect is so strong that it can be detected from space!

Practical Examples of Blue Skies: From Scenic Landscapes to Air Traffic Control Systems

The blue sky is not just a pretty sight - it also has practical applications in our everyday lives. In air traffic
control, the colors seen in the sky can be an indicator of incoming or outgoing flights, allowing pilots to make
informed decisions based on weather conditions. Similarly, in scenic landscapes, blue skies can create a stunning
visual effect that draws travelers and tourists alike.

Conclusion: The Science Behind Blue Skies

The science of why the sky is blue is complex and fascinating. It's a testament to the power of nature to amaze us
with its mysterious beauty. Whether we appreciate it from above or below, we can all agree that the colors seen in
the sky are a sight to behold - and it's an experience that continues to inspire wonder and exploration in people
across the world.

total duration:       28.063498961s
load duration:        863.481324ms
prompt eval count:    69 token(s)
prompt eval duration: 241.817ms
prompt eval rate:     285.34 tokens/s
eval count:           1177 token(s)
eval duration:        26.95542s
eval rate:            43.66 tokens/s
>>> Write a long essay on why the sky is blue. Include scientific explanations, historical context, and practical exampl
... es. Make it detailed and well-structured.
The Mysterious Blue Sky: An Explicatvie of Science Behind Why It's Blue

For millions of years, the sky has been a colorful and mysterious canvas, filled with secret sights to be
unraveled. From the clouds that form in the morning and mingle with the sea air at noon, to the sunset that paints
the sky in vibrant hues of blue, the sky is a natural wonderland of colors and patterns.

The Blue Sky: A Historical Perspective

The first sightings of the blue sky can be traced back to ancient Greece, where it was known as a "phanthos" - an
optical illusion caused by refraction and distortion of light by airborne particles. In 1675, the Swiss astronomer
Baron Hermann von Helmholtz observed that the sun's rays are bent as they strike the Earth's upper atmosphere
before being scattered and refracted by water vapor in the atmosphere.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Physics of Light Refraction

Understanding the physics of blue skies is essential for understanding how they form. In fact, the sun's light
itself generates these colors - it's the Earth's atmosphere that refracts and bends this light.

When the sun rises in the morning sky, warm, high-altitude air is being blown out by the sun's heat. This
high-altitude air rosees down into the stratosphere (the upper layers beyond 10 km), where it meets water vapor
mixed with air. The warmer, denser air rises faster than cooler, lighter air in this layer.

This expanding and condensing process creates a high amount of humidity as warm air rises into the air that is
higher up. When this humid air reaches the upper levels of Earth's atmosphere, it causes clouds to form.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Water Vapor and Oxygen

As well as the Earth's atmosphere, water vapor also plays a critical role in generating blue skies. This is
because as warm air rises, it cools and expands due to its increased pressure. This expansion creates tiny
droplets that eventually fall back down to earth as rain or snow.

This process continues until the air reaches the stratosphere, where the humidity is much lower than at higher
altitudes. From there, cooler, higher altitude air rushes upwards again, producing new cloud formation in the sky.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Oxygen and Water Vapor

Oxygen (O2) is another important component in the formation of blue skies. As mentioned earlier, when oxygen atoms
hit water vapor in the atmosphere, they are absorbed and then bombarded by a series of alternate patterns called
"moons."

The moons appear as alternating points on the sky because they're created during a chemical reaction called
photochemistry - where sunlight is bounced off oxygen atoms. The photochemical reaction causes the water vapor to
break down into its various components, including the oxygen and carbon dioxide that we see in blue skies.

Pratical Examples: Air Traffic Control and Landscapes

The blue sky is not just a pretty sight - it also has practical applications in our everyday lives. In air traffic
control, the colors seen in the sky provide pilots with essential information about weather conditions, allowing
them to navigate safely. Similarly, in scenic landscape photography, capturing the beauty of blue skies can
inspire and motivate us to capture their magic.

Conclusion: The Science Behind Why the Sky Is Blue

In conclusion, the science behind why the sky is blue is fascinating and complex. From the clouds that form in the
morning and paint the sky in vibrant hues of blue, to the sun's light causing droplets to fall back down into
lower altitudes, the complex process is the result of an interplay between physics, chemistry, and atmospheric
processes. This scientific understanding has led to advancements in technologies such as satellite imaging and air
traffic control, which have improved our daily lives.

total duration:       29.654908112s
load duration:        46.274958ms
prompt eval count:    1316 token(s)
prompt eval duration: 4.854137s
prompt eval rate:     271.11 tokens/s
eval count:           925 token(s)
eval duration:        24.718833s
eval rate:            37.42 tokens/s
>>> Write a long essay on why the sky is blue. Include scientific explanations, historical context, and practical exampl
... es. Make it detailed and well-structured.
The Mystery of Blue Sky: An Explaination of Science Behind Why It's Blue

For millions of years, the sky has been a colorful and mysterious canvas, filled with secret sightings to be
unraveld. From the clouds that form in the morning and mingle with the sea air at noon, to the sunset that
paintings the sky in vibrant hues of blue, the sky is a natural wonderland of colors and patterns.

The Blue Sky: A Historical Perspective

The first sightings of the blue sky can be traced back to ancient Greece, where it was known as a "phanthos" - an
optical illusion caused by refraction and distortion of light by airborne particles. In 1675, the Swiss astronomer
Baron Hermann von Helmholtz observed that the sun's rays are bent as they strike the Earth's upper atmosphere
before being scattered and refracted by water vapor in the atmosphere.

Understanding the Physics of Blue Skies: The Physics of Light Refraction

Understanding the physics of blue skies is essential for understaning how they form. In fact, the sun's light
itself generates these colors - it's the Earth's atmosphere that refracts and bends this light. When the sun rises
in the morning sky, warm, high-altitude air is being blown out by the sun's heat. This high-altitude air rosees
down into the stratosphere (the upper layers beyond 10 km), where it meets water vapor mixed with air. The warm
air risees faster than cooler, lighter air in this layer.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Water Vapor and Oxygen

As well as the Earth's atmosphere, water vapor plays a critical role in generating blue skies. This is because as
warm air risess, it cooles and expands due to its increased pressure. This expansion creates tiny droplets that
eventually fall back down to earth as rain or snow. This process continues until the air reaches the stratosphere,
where the humidiity is much lower than at higher altitudes. From there, cooler, higher altitude air rushes upwards
again, producing new cloud formation in the sky.

The Science Behind Blue Skies: The Chemistry of Oxygen and Water Vapor

Oxygen (O2) is another important component in the formation of blue skies. As mentioned earlier, when oxygen atoms
hit water vapor in the atmosphere, they are absorbed and then bombarded by a series of alternate patterns called
"moons." The moons appear as alternating points on the sky because they're created during a chemical reaction
called photochemistry - where sunlight is bounced off oxygen atoms.

Pratical Example: Air Traffic Control and Landscapes

The blue sky is not just a pretty sight - it also has practical applications in our everyday lives. In air traffic
control, the colors seen in the sky provide pilotsthat with essential information about weather conditions,
allowing them to navigate safely. Similarly, in scenic landscape photography, capturing the beauty of blue skies
can inspirer and motivate us to capture their magic.

Conclusion: The Science Behind Why the Sky Is Blue

In conclusion, the science behind why the sky is blue is fascinaating and complex. From the clouds that form in
the morning and paint the sky in vibrant hues of blue, to the sun's light causing droplets to fall back down into
lower altitudes, the complex process is the result of an interplay between physics, chemistry, and atmospheric
processes. This scientific understanding has led to advancements in technologies such as satellite imaging and air
traffic control, which have improved our daily lives.

total duration:       25.757412859s
load duration:        46.40682ms
prompt eval count:    1057 token(s)
prompt eval duration: 4.035921s
prompt eval rate:     261.90 tokens/s
eval count:           829 token(s)
eval duration:        21.633877s
eval rate:            38.32 tokens/s
>>> /bye

What's next:
    Try Docker Debug for seamless, persistent debugging tools in any container or image → docker debug arcworks-resto-ollama-1
    Learn more at https://docs.docker.com/go/debug-cli/
PS C:\Users\REDACTED> docker exec -it arcworks-resto-ollama-1 ollama run llama3.2:3b
>>> /set verbose
Set 'verbose' mode.
>>> /set parameter num_gpu 99
Set parameter 'num_gpu' to '99'
>>> /set parameter num_ctx 4096
Set parameter 'num_ctx' to '4096'
>>> /show info
  Model
    architecture        llama
    parameters          3.2B
    context length      131072
    embedding length    3072
    quantization        Q4_K_M

  Capabilities
    completion
    tools

  Parameters
    stop    "<|start_header_id|>"
    stop    "<|end_header_id|>"
    stop    "<|eot_id|>"

  License
    LLAMA 3.2 COMMUNITY LICENSE AGREEMENT
    Llama 3.2 Version Release Date: September 25, 2024
    ...

>>> /show parameters
Model defined parameters:
  stop                           "<|start_header_id|>"
  stop                           "<|end_header_id|>"
  stop                           "<|eot_id|>"

User defined parameters:
  num_ctx                        4096
  num_gpu                        99

>>> Write a long essay on why the sky is blue. Include scientific explanations, historical context, and practical exampl
... es. Make it detailed and well-structured.
The Color of the Sky: A Scientific Exploration of Why the Sky Appears Blue

The sky has been a subject of human fascination for centuries, with artists, scientists, and philosophers alike
attempting to explain its mysterious hue. One of the most enduring questions about the sky is why it appears blue,
a color that has captivated our imagination and inspired countless works of art throughout history. In this essay,
we will delve into the scientific explanations behind the blue color of the sky, exploring the historical context,
physical principles, and practical examples that underlie this phenomenon.

Historical Context: The Ancient Greeks to Modern Physics

The ancient Greeks were among the first to observe and record the color of the sky, with philosophers such as
Aristotle and Plato proposing various theories to explain its hue. Aristotle suggested that the blue color of the
sky was caused by the reflection of sunlight off the surface of the Earth, while Plato believed it was a result of
the presence of tiny, invisible particles in the air.

In the 17th century, the English scientist Isaac Newton laid the foundation for our modern understanding of light
and color with his groundbreaking work on the nature of light. Newton's experiment with prisms revealed that white
light is composed of a spectrum of colors, each corresponding to a specific wavelength. He proposed that the blue
color of the sky is caused by the scattering of sunlight as it passes through the atmosphere.

However, it wasn't until the 19th century that the British scientist Joseph von Fraunhofer developed a more
comprehensive theory to explain the color of the sky. Fraunhofer's research led him to propose that the blue color
of the sky is caused by the scattering of sunlight as it interacts with tiny molecules and particles in the
atmosphere, such as nitrogen (N2) and oxygen (O2). This theory was later supported by the American physicist
Rayleigh, who demonstrated that the blue color of the sky is a result of the scattering of shorter-wavelength
light (such as blue and violet) by these tiny particles.

Modern Physics: The Role of Scattering

The blue color of the sky can be explained by the principles of physics, specifically the phenomenon of
scattering. When sunlight enters the Earth's atmosphere, it encounters various particles and molecules that
scatter the light in different directions. The shorter-wavelength light (such as blue and violet) is scattered
more than the longer-wavelength light (such as red and orange), due to its smaller size and greater velocity.

This phenomenon is known as Rayleigh scattering, named after Lord Rayleigh, who first described it in 1871.
According to Rayleigh's theory, the blue color of the sky is a result of the scattering of sunlight by nitrogen
molecules in the atmosphere. The tiny nitrogen molecules scatter the shorter-wavelength light more efficiently
than the longer-wavelength light, which is why we see the sky as blue.

Practical Examples: Observations and Experiments

There are numerous practical examples that demonstrate the scientific principles behind the blue color of the sky.
One example is the observation that the sky appears more intense during sunrise and sunset, when the sun's rays
have to travel longer distances through the atmosphere. This increased scattering of light results in a more vivid
blue color.

Another example is the phenomenon known as "twilight," which occurs when the sun is below the horizon but still
visible above the horizon. During twilight, the sky can take on a range of colors, from pink to orange to purple,
due to the scattering of sunlight by atmospheric particles and molecules.

Experiments have also been conducted to measure the color of the sky under various conditions. For example, the
American physicist Gustav Kirchhoff measured the spectral distribution of light scattered by different gases in
the atmosphere, providing valuable insights into the physics underlying the blue color of the sky.

Real-World Applications: Colorimetry and Atmospheric Science

The study of the color of the sky has numerous real-world applications in fields such as colorimetry and
atmospheric science. In colorimetry, the understanding of how light interacts with matter is crucial for
developing new pigments and coatings that can accurately reproduce colors.

In atmospheric science, the study of the blue color of the sky provides valuable insights into the composition and
properties of the atmosphere. By analyzing the spectral distribution of light scattered by different gases in the
atmosphere, scientists can gain a better understanding of air pollution, climate change, and other environmental
phenomena.

Conclusion

The blue color of the sky is a fascinating phenomenon that has captivated human imagination for centuries. Through
scientific explanations, historical context, and practical examples, we have explored the physics underlying this
phenomenon. The study of the color of the sky continues to be an active area of research, with ongoing discoveries
in atmospheric science and colorimetry shedding new light on the properties of the atmosphere.

As we continue to explore and understand the natural world around us, it is essential to recognize the intricate
web of scientific principles that underlie our everyday experiences. The blue color of the sky serves as a
powerful reminder of the beauty and complexity of the physical world, inspiring us to pursue further research and
discovery in this captivating field.

References:

* Newton, I. (1672). Opticks: Or, A Treatise of Reflections, Refractions, Inflections and Colours.
* Fraunhofer, J. H. (1826). Beiträge zur optischen Physik und der Lehre von den Farben.
* Rayleigh, L. (1871). On the light from the sky, its polarization and colour.
* Kirchhoff, G. (1860). On the theory of spectra, particularly that of gases.

Note: The references provided are a selection of key works in the history of scientific thought on the color of
the sky. A more comprehensive list of references would be required for a full academic treatment of this topic.

total duration:       1m25.734854079s
load duration:        3.381560973s
prompt eval count:    55 token(s)
prompt eval duration: 586.794ms
prompt eval rate:     93.73 tokens/s
eval count:           1176 token(s)
eval duration:        1m21.764162s
eval rate:            14.38 tokens/s
>>> Send a message (/? for help)
